# SnakeGame
Snake Game clone that runs in command line. Created using C++ and the Windows API.

# Description 
Using C++ and the WIN32 API, I created a snake game clone that runs in the command line. The graphics are drawn using the Windows API and are represented by ASCII characters. The user controls a snake that is moved using the 'wasd' keys. Apples are randomly generated and when the user collides with an apple the snake grows and their score is increased. In this version of the game, the user can also go through the outside borders and then be teleported to the opposite side. If the user is to collide with the body of their own snake, then the game is over and the user is prompted to play again. The snake is represented with a linked list, and the game board is represented by an array of characters.

# What I Learned
This project helped me practice my C++ skills and I learned a lot from implementing a game loop, checking for collisions, representing a game board with an array, and using the Windows API to draw to the command line and recieve input from the keyboard. I had never previously used the game loop before this project, but now I feel very confident in my ability to implement it. Overcoming the challenge of representing a variety of objects in 2D space as well as checking for collisions between these objects was a great exercise. Using a 1D array to represent 2D space was also a fun challenge. Admittably, my experience with using the Windows API was more "following directions" than true learning. Going forwards, I would like to get more experience with the Windows API so I can feel more comfortable using it without having to constantly reference example code.

# What I Would Like To Change
Since I only used the Windows API, this game is not compatible with Mac or Linux. I would like to eventually learn how to write games that are more cross platform. It would also have been nice to build the game with more complicated graphics than just ASCII characters, but that will require more experience with the Windows API than I currently have. There are also a few places in the program that felt a little bit more "hard-coded" than I like. Specifcally, my management of remapping snake segments in the event of a border collsion relied on seemingly random integers that I would rather have more well defined in specific variables rather than just used for seemingly no purpose. 
